[DOC-622] 2024.2.0 Release Highlights & Docs updates (#25750)
yugabyte/yugabyte-db: docs/content/preview/releases/ybdb-releases/v2024.2.md

The performance of YSQL backward table scans (for example, a descending-sorted query occurs against a table that is sorted ascending) has been improved by up to 10x in this release. You enable the feature using the `use_fast_backward_scan` flag.

**Improved Query Performance with Shared Memory PG-to-TServer Communication** {{<tags/feature/ga>}}

> This enhancement significantly reduces communication overhead between the PG backend and TServer— which plays a critical role in both read and write flows. We observed a 10+% increase in throughput and a 10+% decrease in latency in workloads like TPCC and YCSB. This improvement is particularly impactful in the following scenarios: (1) Colocation: When queries are guaranteed to route to the tablet leader, communication overhead is minimized. (2) Queries involving multiple round trips, such as paginated reads or unbatched requests, benefit from reduced latency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This enhancement significantly reduces communication overhead between the PostgreSQL backend and TServer, which plays a critical role in both read and write flows. We observed a 10+% increase in throughput and a 10+% decrease in latency in workloads like TPCC and YCSB. This improvement is particularly impactful in the following scenarios:

- Colocation. When queries are guaranteed to route to the tablet leader, communication overhead is minimized.
- Queries involving multiple round trips, such as paginated reads or unbatched requests, benefit from reduced latency.
```

> This feature is controlled by the `pg_client_use_shared_memory` gflag,which is enabled by default starting 2024.2.0 release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature is controlled by the `pg_client_use_shared_memory` flag, which is enabled by default starting in v2024.2.0.
```

**New YB-TServer and YB-Master memory allocation settings** {{<tags/feature/ga>}}

> YugabyteDB uses [memory division flags](/stable/reference/configuration/yb-master/#memory-division-flags) to specify how memory should be divided between different processes (for example, [YB-TServer](/stable/architecture/yb-tserver/) versus [YB-Master](/stable/architecture/yb-master/)) on a YugabyteDB node as well as within processes. New 2024.2.0 universes created using yugabyted or YugabyteDB Anywhere now automatically default to the new recommended memory defaults for using YSQL introduced in 2024.1 via setting [`‑‑use_memory_defaults_optimized_for_ysql`](/stable/reference/configuration/yb-tserver/#use-memory-defaults-optimized-for-ysql) to true.  Also turned on by default is `--enforce_tablet_replica_limits`, which enforces tablet replica limits based on the memory allocated to per-tablet overhead across the universe.  With it turned on, CREATE TABLE requests that would create too many tablets give errors. Tablet splitting will also be blocked if the result would be too many tablets.  Regardless of the second flag setting, you will also now get alerts if your system currently has too many tablets. If you are _upgrading_ a universe, you may want to instead review your memory division settings and adjust them if desired; see [best practices](/stable/develop/best-practices-ysql/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
YugabyteDB uses [memory division flags](/stable/reference/configuration/yb-master/#memory-division-flags) to specify how memory should be divided between different processes (for example, [YB-TServer](/stable/architecture/yb-tserver/) versus [YB-Master](/stable/architecture/yb-master/)) on a YugabyteDB node as well as within processes. New v2024.2.0 universes created using yugabyted or YugabyteDB Anywhere use the recommended memory settings for YSQL (introduced in v2024.1) by default (the [‑‑use_memory_defaults_optimized_for_ysql](/stable/reference/configuration/yb-tserver/#use-memory-defaults-optimized-for-ysql) flag is set to true).

Also turned on by default is `--enforce_tablet_replica_limits`, which enforces tablet replica limits based on the memory allocated to per-tablet overhead across the universe. When turned on, any CREATE TABLE request that would create too many tablets returns an error, and tablet splitting is also blocked if the result would be too many tablets.

In addition (regardless of the `enforce_tablet_replica_limits` flag setting), YugabyteDB will alert you if your system currently has too many tablets. If you are _upgrading_ a universe, you may want to review your memory division settings and adjust them if desired; see [Best practices](/stable/develop/best-practices-ysql/).
```
